one of the most important things and
actually one of most exciting things
about working on tiny Giants was taking
the viewer down into the world that
these animals live and it's a tiny world
where the physics of the world and the
nature of the world looks completely
different and I think one of the excuses
that shows that best is the flash flood
sequence the Arizona desert is a
remarkable place the temperatures there
can hit over a hundred degrees
Fahrenheit and that bakes the grounds so
hard it becomes like almost like
concrete and it means water can't really
penetrate through so when there's a
really heavy downpour the rain doesn't
sink into the ground but it runs off and
creates a torrent of water that can
create what we call a flash flood for
that to happen there has to be more than
two inches or so of rain falling within
six hours and in Arizona that happens
maybe just once or twice a year but if
that does happen then the water can be
channeled down steep-sided canyons or
guys and it creates a wall of water that
can that can travel at extraordinary
speeds now that may not be such a
problem for a human being but if you're
a tiny creature only six inches tall
that's likely faced up with a sooner
most of the creatures that live in a
desert are adapted to be able to cope
with absolute dry hot you know really
tough life but all life means some water
and these flash floods and these
occasional rainstorms do allow water to
spread across the desert and so there is
water for the plants and therefore some
of the animals so that's the sport it's
a lifeline of the creatures that live in
the desert to see the world from a
completely different perspective to see
what it looks like when you're only this
high to experience a flash flood in the
deserts of Arizona watch tiny giants